Sculptor->Direct Manips

This brings up a selection of direct 3D manipulators. This controls
which manipulator is used when an object is selected. By default, a
"drag manipulator" is provided. These 3D manipulators provide direct
3D rotation, linear/non-linear scaling, and translation of the object.
Each manipulator has a 3D geometry of its own. By grabbing and moving
appropriate parts of the manipulator object, you can move, scale and
rotate the actual object.

"Replace": This toggle button indicates whether the manipulators for
all currently selected objects should be changed when you switch to a
new manipulator. If you have this turned off, it allows you to have
different manipulators on different objects.

"Drag Point": This is the default manipulator. It is shaped like a
wireframe cube around the object being manipulated. Pressing down on
the left mouse button and dragging the box moves the object along with
it. In a 2D viewer (see Settings->2Dviewer), the object can be moved
in the viewing plane. In the 3D viewer (see Settings->3Dviewer), you
can actually move it in any direction. The manipulator chooses which
3D axis direction to move in, based on your mouse movement. If you
keep the "Shift" key pressed, the movement will be constrained along
the nearest axis (which will be colored a brighter yellow). If you
keep the "Alt" key pressed, the movement will be constrained along the
plane indicated by the first gesture of the mouse.

"Trackball": This manipulator allows independent free rotation,
constrained rotation about the major axes, as well as constrained
rotation about an arbitrary axis.

The manipulator appears as three rings around the object. Dragging on
one of these rings (using the left mouse button) will constrain
rotation to the axis the ring surrounds. Dragging on the sphere
defined by the three rings (but not on the rings) allows free
rotation.

Holding the "Shift" key, then clicking and dragging with the left
mouse button will cause a user-defined axis and ring to appear.
Holding the "Alt" key, then dragging on the manipulator with the left
mouse button will scale the manipulator and the object it is editing.


"Handle Box": This manipulator allows independent translation along
one and two dimensions, as well as scaling in one or three dimensions.

The manipulator appears as a cube with scaling knobs at the corners
and in the middle of the faces. The face knobs control scaling along
one direction. The corner knobs allow uniform scaling in 3 dimensions.
By default scaling occurs about the center of the box. Holding the
"Alt" key causes scaling to occur about the opposite face or corner,
respectively.

Grabbing any face of the cube causes translation on that plane.
Holding the "Alt" key causes the translation to occur in one
dimension, perpendicular to that face.

Holding the "Ctrl" key, then dragging on the manipulator with the left
mouse button will scale the size of the manipulator, without affecting
the object it is editing.


"Jack": This manipulator allows you to perform rotations, uniform
scales and translations, all in one spiffy gadget that looks like a
children's toy.

Translation works like the "Drag Point" manipulator. Rotation works
like the "Trackball" manipulator. Grabbing on the end of a jack
handles and pulling scales the object uniformly.


"Transform Box": This manipulator allows independent translation in
two dimensions, uniform scaling in three dimensions, and rotation
about any of the major axes.

The manipulator appears as a cube with scaling knobs at the corners.
Picking on any of these knobs causes uniform scaling about the center.
Picking on any face causes 2D translation along the plane of the face.
Picking on any of the edges of the cube causes a rotation about the
axis parallel to that edge, running through the center of the cube.

