Limelight->Environment

Environment... is the next selection in the Limelight menu. When
selected, it brings up the Environment Editor.

The Environment Editor is used to edit the global attributes of the
environment in Movieola. This environment will affect all other
lighting elements as might be expected in a real world context. You
might think of it like this, if you selected "Fog" then all elements
of lighting in the environment will have the "Fog" effect imparted to
them.

The Environment Editor consist of the following tools and options:

	Environment Type (Radio button)
	   	Fog
	   	Mist
		None

	Environment - Fog Type (Radio button)
		linear
		exponential
		exponential squared

	Density (Slider)
	Refraction Index (Slider)


	Background Color (Editor)

	Use Defaults	Dismiss


Environment Type is the first selection in the Environment Editor.
Three different environment types are possible -- fog, mist and none
(default) environment.

Fog: This sets the environment type to fog. This can be used to
simulate various atmospheric effects such as fog, haze, pollution, and
smoke. For general purposes, all these atmospheric effects are grouped
under the term fog. The difference between fog and haze, for example,
is simply the color and density.

Mist: You will notice that this toggle button is colored blue. What
this means is that setting the environment type to "Mist" will not
cause any change in the Movieola scene. The effects only show in the
final rendered image produced using Movieola's photo-realistic
rendering module. A global low-altitude mist effect of the specified
color is produced in the rendered image. The density value sets the
transmitivity value of the fog/mist for each color channel.  rendering
module.

None: This option sets the default environment with no fog or mist
effects.

Density: This slider sets the density of the fog. In other words, how
quickly the opacity of the fog increases with distance from the
camera.

Refraction Index: This slider is colored blue meaning its effects will
only show in the final rendered image. This sets the index of
refraction of the specified medium -- fog, mist or default.

Background Color Editor:

This color editor sets the color of the background in Movieola. You
may use either the color wheel or the RGB-value color sliders to set
the value of the background color. If you have set the fog or mist
option, the background color also serves as the fog color.

Use Defaults: This push button resets the environment settings to
default values.

Dismiss: This dismisses the Environment editor.

