Sculptor->Face Builder

Face Builder is used to create individual polygons, add polygons to
existing objects, and to create connections between different objects.
It provides ultimate low-level control to the expert user.

If Face Builder is invoked on an existing selected object, and if that
object is a Potter or Spline object, the object is first polygonized.
Face Builder has two modes - "Edit Old", and "Create New". In the
"Create New" mode, you can create new polygons using the mouse in the
main viewing window(s). In the "Edit Old" mode, you can move the
polygon vertices.

 "Object Name": As with other Movieola tools, the object name appears
in the top left corner. The user can give a meaningful name by
selecting the default name (by dragging the left mouse pressed) and
deleting it, and typing in a new name.

"Sides": You can set the number of sides for the new polygons (faces)
that you are going to create.

"Create New": This mode allows you to create new faces or add new
faces to existing ones. Create new vertices by clicking on the left
mouse button. You get a rubber band figure that becomes a face as soon
as you finish entering all vertices (3 for a triangle). Enter the
vertices clockwise for the face to be oriented outside. You can use
the vertex of another connecting face by moving the cursor over the
vertex until a green box appears, and clicking on the left mouse
button. That vertex is now shared by the old face(s), and the new face
that you are creating. While building a face, you can press "d" to
remove the most recent point entered.

"Edit Old": This mode allows you to move the vertices around once you
have created faces. To move a vertex, move the cursor over it until a
green box appears, then press down on the left mouse button. You get a
yellow highlight. Move the vertex while keeping the mouse button
pressed. You can also move a group of vertices by first dragging a
rectangular box around the vertices using the middle mouse button.
This brings up a "manipulator" around the box. You can now move the
box by keeping the left mouse button pressed. You can also scale the
box by pressing on the corner and side "handles" of the box
manipulator.

"Flip Face": Selecting a face by clicking the left mouse button on it,
and choosing "Flip Face" causes the face to go inside out. If no face
is selected, the last face created will be flipped. Normally the
"outside" of the face is defined by the side in which the vertices are
in clockwise order. "Flip face" can be used to reverse the order of
vertices of a face, and hence make the "inside" of the face "outside".
You can also press "f" while within the viewer window.

"Delete Face": Selecting a face by clicking the left mouse button on
it, and choosing "Delete Face" causes the face to be deleted from the
object.  If no face is selected, the last face created will be
deleted. You can press "d" or "Backspace" or "Delete" while in the
viewer window.

"Split Face": Selecting a face by clicking the left mouse button on
it, and choosing "Split Face" causes the face to be split into
triangles around the center of the face.  If no face is selected, the
last face created will be split. "Split Faces" is a good way of
increasing the detail of portions of the object. The newly created
center vertex can now be moved for finer adjustment.

As you can see, Face Builder is a low-level, but extremely flexible
and powerful tool.

