Limelight->Lights

Lights is the first selection found in the Limelight menu. When
selected, it brings up the Light Editor.

The Light Editor contains the following options and controls.

	Light name (Editable field)
	OK (Push button)
	Create New (Radio button)
	Edit Old (Radio button)

	Light Controls
	on/off (Toggle)
	Show Icon (Toggle)
	Cast Shadows (Toggle)

	
	Light type selector (Radio button)
	Ambient
	Headlight
	Directional
	Spot
	Point

	Light List (List selection menu)

	Light Color Editor

	Create	Dismiss	Remove (Push buttons)


Light Name (Editable field) is the first option in the light editor.
It is used to set the name of the light source for future referencing.
Lights are treated as objects for manipulation usage but will not
appear in the final rendered image.

Create New: This toggle is used to create a new light. "Create New" is
a toggle button connected to "Edit Old". It is used to begin the
process of creating a light source in Movieola. In this mode, you
cannot select previously created light sources. To create a light,
first select the type of light (Directional, Spot or Point) you want
to create, set its color using the color editor and press "Create". If
you have the "show icon" option on, you will notice the light icon
appear on the upper left corner of your main Movieola window. You may
then manipulate the parameters of the light either by adjusting the
controls on the light icon or by setting controls in the light editor.
When you press "Create" and a light is created, the Light editor
automatically goes into "Edit Old" mode and makes the newly created
light the current light for manipulation. If you want to create
another light source, simply select the "Create New" option again and
follow the same steps as above.

Edit Old: This toggle is used to edit an old or existing light. "Edit
Old" is used to begin the process of editing a previously created
light source. To edit the light source you want, simply select the
name of the light from the "Light list" selection menu. Or "pick" the
light icon (if visible) in the main view and light corresponding to
the picked icon will be selected.
	
Light controls

on/off: This toggle is used to turn on or off a light created in the
Light Editor. This is a simple switch device.

show icon: This toggle is used to turn on/off display of the light
icon in the Movieola environment. You may want to have the "show icon"
option on if you want to manipulate the light's parameters using the
light's icon in the main Movieola view. Light icons visible in the
Movieola environment are not rendered in a test or final rendered
image..

Cast Shadows: Turns on or off the shadow casting of a light. This
feature is on a per light basis, not per object basis. This feature is
not available in this release.

Light list: This is a listing of all lights in the current Movieola
scene. By default, Movieola creates an Ambient light source and a
headlight attached to the camera in the main view.. The simplest way
to select a light source is to "pick" the light icon in the main
window. Lights may also be selected using this light list menu if the
light icon is not displayed in the main window or if it is in such a
position that it is inaccesible or inconvenient to select using the
mouse in the main window.

Headlight: : This light points at the Movieola environment from the
"Front" view. The headlight is a directional light and is always
attached to the current camera position in the main view and moves
with the camera.  So this light affects all objects no mater what
their postional configuration might be. The Headlight is often used
for better viewing and then turned off for rendering. Headlights
cannot be created -- they can only be turned on or off.

Ambient: This light is like the sun. It has no location and affects
all the objects in the scene. It produces a constant illumination on
all surfaces, regardless of their orientation. Unfortunately, ambient
light by itself produces very unrealistic images since few real
environments are illuminated solely by ambient light. There can be
only one ambient light in the Movieola scene.

Directional : This light illuminates uniformly along a particular
direction. Since it is infinitely far away, it has no location in 3-D
space. The icon for the directional light is for light direction
manipulation purposes only -- you will find that moving it along the
same direction does not produce any change in light effects. The light
intensity does not change with distance. The increase or decrease of
the light falling on an object is the result of the angular change.
The angular shift in shadows is the same as would be expected in
nature. This means that as you change the direction of the Directional
light, you will see a corresponding change in shadows. The directional
light's icon may be used to change its direction by "picking" the end
of the arrow in the icon and dragging it in the desired direction.

Spot : This light works like the traditional spot light producing a
tight and adjustable light source. It may be placed anywhere in the
Movieola environment and pointed in any direction. The cone of the
light is adjustable in size .

Point : This light is like a star radiating light in all directions
evenly, It is much like a solar source with the exception that it may
be positioned anywhere in the Movieola environment. It will produce
proper sun rise shadow effects.

Light Color:

The light color editor is used to set the color of the light being
edited. This editor consist of three main parts, the first is a set of
windows which set the main and secondary color of the current light,
the second part is a color wheel which contains all the colors
selectable with this editor. The third is a set of 4 sliders which can
be used to set the values of the color componest that make up any
given color emitted from the light being created.  The user may vary
the color of the light by draging the circular cursor from point to
point in the color wheel or by moving the color sliders to the desired
value. One nice feature of this system is that the two "sub editors"
are linked so that if one is used, the other also moves to reflect the
changes made in the first. This makes it possible to set the color in
any of the two ways. The sliders provide a more exact way of setting
the Red, Green and Blue components of the color.

	In addition, once a light has been created and positioned in
the Movieola environment, the editor may be used to make changes which
will be seen immediately in the Movieola environment thus allowing
fine tuning of lighs . There is no limit on the number of spot lights,
directional lights or point lights that can be created in Movieola.

Create (Button) works only in "Create New" mode. It creates a light of
selected light type and other light paramers and immediately adds it
to the scene. Once a light is created, the light editor immediately
switches to "Edit Old" mode to allow you to edit the attributes of the
light. If you want to create another light source, simply select the
"Create New" option again.

Dismiss (Button) is used to dismiss the Light Editor.

Remove (Button) when pressed will remove the currently selected light
source from the Movieola environment.

