Sculptor->Operations->Mold

"Mold" is a tool which can be used to alter the surface of any object.
It has two active modes: "Tweak points" and "Mold with Tool".

"Tweak Points": In the "Tweak points" operation, the user can tweak
individual spline control points (in case of spline objects), or
individual vertices (in case of polygonal objects), using direct 3D
manipulation in the viewer windows. In the case of spline objects,
little blue points represent the spline control points.

To move a point, move the cursor over it until a green box appears.
Then press down on the left mouse button and move the point. In a 2D
viewer (see Settings->2Dviewer), the point can be moved in the viewing
plane. In the 3D viewer (see Settings->3Dviewer), you can actually
move it in any direction. The manipulator choose which 3D axis
direction to move in, based on your mouse movement. If you keep the
"Shift" key pressed, the movement will be constrained along the
nearest axis (which will be colored a brighter yellow). If you keep
the "Alt" key pressed, the movement will be constrained along the
plane indicated by the first gesture of the mouse.

You can also move a group of points by dragging a rectangular box
around them using the middle mouse button. A "box manipulator" appears
over the box. You can move the box (and the points within it) by
pressing the left mouse button and moving. You can also resize the box
by pressing on the corner and side "handles" of the box manipulator.

"Mold with tool": (Currently not available): "Mold with tool" works
exactly the same way that a sculptor's fingers do with modeling clay.
The user is given a second object as a "mold tool".  The mold tool is
manipulated in any viewer window with the mouse. The "Mold" tool is
pressed against the surface of the object, and the surface of the
model will deform to match the shape of the mold tool. The more the
tool is pushed into the object surface the more the surface conforms
to the shape of the mold tool. The mold tool may be used on the out
side of the object to press in or inside the object to push out.
Movieola comes with several default mold tool shapes. Custom mold tool
shapes can be created using the standard modeling tools, and converted
to Mold tools in desired.

"Spline Steps": For spline objects, the tool allows the user to
control the number of steps between two consecutive spline points. The
more the number of steps, the denser the object..

"Polygonize": This converts a spline object into a polygonal object.
This allows you to have lower-level control over the shape of the
object, but you lose the spline information.

"New": To mold another object, choose "Idle" mode, select the object
and choose "New".

