 Congratulations and welcome to Movieola.

	This introduction to Movieola will help you to understand the
interface and direction this software application was intended to go
in. Our philosophy of "artists need not be programmers or have deep
pockets to create the best computer art " will appeal both to existing
UNIX users as well as Mac, Amiga or Atari users looking for cheap,
user-friendly software on a more powerful platform.

	MOVIEOLA is intended to be an entry level tool used to create
photo-realistic computer graphics animations and static images.  The
old adage "if it seems too good to be true then it isnt", does not
hold true for MOVIEOLA. And so doesnt, "If it's cheap, it's got to be
bad". MOVIEOLA compares favorably with the very best and most
expensive modelers at less than 1/10th the cost!  Movieola's price of
less than $4500 (for hardware systems price pointed at $10K) would
seem rather cheap compared with established packages like Alias or
Wavefront.  With features like splines, "potter", molding, 3Dtext, 3D
manipulation, layered texture / bump mapping, and a highly interactive
"non-techie" interface, Movieola will surprise you when you try it.
For users of low end machines looking to switch to the more powerful
SGI platform, but are dismayed by the lack of cheap, user-friendly
modeling software, Movieola may be the answer.

	When the designers and engineers here at Radiance Software
first sat down to begin the task of creating MOVIEOLA, the first item
to consider was the complaints that we hear most often from the users
of currently available computer modeling and animation applications.
The next question was what could we possibly do to help these users.
We came to the conclusion that what was needed was a simple set of
tools that placed most of the creative power in the hands of the user.
This was the birth of tools like "potter" and "mold", simple tools
that perform on the computer, what artistans have been doing for
thousands of years - making clay pots, and molding little lumps of
clay into exquisite objects just by pushing their fingers.  As you
begin to use the Potter tool, thespline editors and the Mold tool, you
will understand how much like the real world MOVIEOLA is!

	MOVIEOLA was intended for the creative artist who has little
or no UNIX experience. As this is a tool intended for the
UNIX-illiterate user, you will find that virtuallly every operation
is through a graphical interface. This may be a graphics window, it
may be a dialog box or it may be an alert box which is telling you
something. Everything you do will be presented to you in this way. You
will find no need to type in UNIX shell comands, run compilers, or
chase through a maze of UNIX directories. Online context-sensitive
"cue cards" help you at every stage of your project. Like many modern
computer graphics applications MOVIEOLA uses a mixed paradigm in its
interface: a combination of sculture, old theater and modern movie
studio. You will notice the names of modules like "Potter", "Mold",
"Costume" , "Limelight" and "Cue Cards". As you begin to work with
MOVIEOLA, if you think of the MOVIEOLA environment in these terms you
will find it a very comfortable place to work in. While being both
flexible and restrictive at the same time, Movieola has just one
simple goal: increasing your productivity.

	MOVIEOLA's biggest feature is its simplicity. Once you
actually begin to use the software you will note that MOVIEOLA does
not really have very many tools. You will also see that the tools
appear overly simple, there is no layering of effects or elaborate
modifiers found in "high-end" packages. The MOVIEOLA environment is
meant to represent a real world in which things work as you might
expect them to, with instantaneous 3D feedback. You start with a
simple template object, then use "Potter" to modify its section or
profile or backbone, just as a real potter would. Then you start
pressing and pulling with your "fingers" in the Mold tool, and "Bend"
the object anyway you want, just as a real sculptor would.  Then
"slice", "mirror" or "branch" off limbs. Resize and move in the 3D
world using real 3D manipulators. Apply materials and textures. Shine
lights on the objects.  Render the scene to get a photorealistic
image.  All using the mouse, with instant feedback!

	MOVIEOLA is a full function computer graphics animation system
that will eventually feature modeling, rendering, paint, animation,
and video recording.  MOVIEOLA-3D is the Modeler and Renderer. While
MOVIEOLA comes bundled with a public domain renderer (RayShade), it
provides a clean way of plugging any other renderer of choice (such as
Renderman) You will note some "grayed out" selections, these are the
animation and recording features not currently activated. These will
be turned on as they are ready for release. When ready these "parts"
will be available at a few hundred dollars, not thousands. MOVIEOLA is
an entry level application and intended to be inexpensive.

	Internally, Movieola makes use of highly sophisticated
modeling technology (multiple NURBS patches generated from
section/profile/axis splines, collision detection, and so on) and the
latest in software technology (SGI's INVENTOR 3D toolkit, C++ and so
on). But the real challenge is in providing this technology to the
user in an unobtrusive, unintimidating and user-friendly environment.

	The documentation comes in several forms. One is the
traditional printed hard copy. This material is laid out in a stright
forward descriptive format appearing in the same order that the tool,
function or option appears in the software. Documentation also comes
in the form of "on-line" cue cards from within MOVIEOLA.  These cue
cards will give you help on whichever operation you are doing at the
moment, or on the topic you want.
	

TOOLS THAT WORK IN PREVIEW MODE

Sculptor->Potter
Costume->Color
Costume->Material
Costume->Texture
Cuecards->

[This is the on-line, context sensitive help module in Movieola. You
may want to push this window below the main Movieola window before
you begin using/previewing the product.]

