Costume->Photo-real Property

Photo-real Property...is the next selection found in the "Costume"
menu.  Photo-real Property editor is used to set the Photo-real
property of the object selected in Movieola. You will notice all the
menu items in this editor colored blue. This means that these settings
will not affect objects in the main Movieola scene. But rather, they
will affect the photo-real look of the object when rendered using the
Photo-real Render feature in Movieola. (Rayshade, RenderMan etc.)

All the photo-real object settings are specific to the photo-realistic
renderer you've selected. Please also refer to the accompanying
documentation for the photo-realistic rendering option you have
purchased for Movieola. (Rayshade, RenderMan, etc.)

Photo-real Property editor contains the following options:

	Reflectivity
	Refractivity
	Translucency
	Extinction Coefficient
	Specular Power

	Use Defaults (Button)
	Dismiss (Button)

Reflectivity: This control sets the specular reflectivity of the
surface of the object selected in Movieola. In other words, it sets
how reflective the object will appear when rendered.

Refractivity: This control sets the index of refraction for the
object. The default value is equal to the index of refraction of the
atmosphere surrounding the eye.

Translucency: This control sets the translucency, diffusely
transmitted color, and Phong exponent for transmitted specular
highlights for the selected object.

Extinction Coefficient: This control sets the extinction coefficient
value of the interior of the object. This coefficient is raised to a
power equal to the distance the transmitted ray travels through the
object. The overall intensity of specularly transmitted rays will be
proportional to this factor multiplied by the surface's body color
multiplied by the transparency of he object.

Specular Power: This control sets the size of specular highlight. The
larger the exponent, the smoother the apparent finish.

Use Defaults (Button) is used to reset to the default photo-real
values for the selected object.

Dismiss (Button) when selected dismisses the Photo-real editor .
