Sculptor->Potter

"Potter" is the primary object creation tool of Movieola.. With it you
will create most of the parts and pieces used in building up objects.
"Potter" is a unique tool, because it combines many traditional tools
(extrude, sweep/spin, axis path and twist) into a single new approach
to modeling 3D objects. In its simplest form this tool extrudes and
spins or sweeps at the same time.

By default, "Potter" comes up with a circular section (in the little
window on the top right) and a straight profile (in the bigger window
below). Sweeping the profile about the section results in a
cylindrical object . If the profile is a sloping line, the object will
be a cone. If the profile is a sloping line, and the section is a
square, the object will be a pyramid. "Potter" also allows you to
modify the section "locally". For example, an object can be round at
the top, then square around the middle, and so on. By default the
object has a straight axis (backbone). You can actually specify and
modify an axis spline path in the viewer window, and see the object
contort itself about the axis! Finally, you can specify a twist to be
applied to each sectional plate. The profile/sections/axis curves can
be a continuous set of both lines and splines. The resultant object
will be a mesh of spline surfaces, and treated as a single continuous
mesh of vertices for rendering.

 "Object Name": As with other Movieola tools, the object name appears
in the top left corner. The user can give a meaningful name by
selecting the default name (by dragging the left mouse pressed) and
deleting it, and typing in a new name.

"Current Operation": There are 4 choices:

	Profile
	Section
	Local Section
	Axis

These options control what parts of the "potted" object you will be
working on. All the buttons on the left of the potter window will now
operate on the chosen spline. See "Spline Editing" further down on
this section, to learn how to modify the spline.

"Profile": This selects the "Profile spline" for editing in the main
spline Editor (Large window). The "Section spline" will appear on the
smaller window.

"Section": This selects the Section spline for Editing in the main
spline Editor (Large Window). The profile spline appears on the
smaller window.

"Local Section": This allows one or more sections to be edited without
affecting any of the remaining sections. Select one or more points in
the Profile editor (using the middle mouse drag box). These are the
points, whose local sections you want to modify. Then choose Local
Section. It brings up the "local section" in the editor window, which
you can now modify.  To restore a group of sections back to the shape
of the "global section", select the points in the Profile window
(using the middle mouse), and choose "Section".  The local section
effects go away.  .  "Axis": This selects the object's "axis"
(backbone) for editing. The 3D axis spline should be edited in the
viewer window(s).  The "axis" may be bent or formed into almost any
curve shape, and the object will extend and contort itself along that
curve.

"Automatic Update": By default, the "potter" object instantly changes
with any change to the profile/section. If the instant feedback slows
things down, turn off Automatic Update, make all the required changes
to the profile in the Potter editing window, and press the Update
button whenever you want to update the potter object.

"Twist": This option when used twist each section about the axis by an
equal amount. The twist will remain, no matter what you do to the axis
. To turn off twist, set the slider value to 0.

"Spline steps": Each spline consists of "spline control points" (blue
markers on the editing window). The spline is created by generating
curve points in between the spline points. The "spline steps" slider
determines the number of curve points between consecutive spline
points. The more spline steps used, the finer or smoother the curves
produced by the main spline points. This is very useful for fast
modeling of spline objects using a low number of "spline steps", and
then bumping up the smoothness while rendering.

Spline Editing:

This is a very powerful 3D curve editor used for creating and
modifying splines. In the "Potter" tool, it is used for editing the
section/profile/axis curves. In the "3D text" tool, it is used to edit
the bevel of the text.

The spline is colored white or red, and the spline control points are
colored blue. The cursor is a red cross-hair. A green rubber-band
extends from the current cursor position to the nearest end of the
spline. If you move the cursor over the spline, that part of the
spline turns green. If you move the cursor over a blue spline point, a
green box appears over it.

To move a blue spline point, move your cursor over it until a green
box appears over it. Press on the left mouse button. The green box
turns yellow . Move the point while keeping the mouse button pressed.
Notice how the spline changes shape! In a 2D viewer (see
Settings->2Dviewer), the object can be moved in the viewing plane. In
the 3D viewer (see Settings->3Dviewer), you can actually move it in
any direction. The manipulator choose which 3D axis direction to move
in, based on your mouse movement. If you keep the "Shift" key pressed,
the movement will be constrained along the nearest axis (which will be
colored a brighter yellow). If you keep the "Alt" key pressed, the
movement will be constrained along the plane indicated by the first
gesture of the mouse.

To move a group of points together, press down the middle mouse button
and drag a rectangular box around the required points. When you let up
on the button, a "box manipulator" shows up around the box. You can
now press down on the left mouse to move the box (and the points
inside it). You can also resize the box by pressing down on the corner
and side "handles". The box turns yellow during movement.

You can make a "closed" spline by pressing "j" (the Potter tool also
has a "Join Ends" toggle interface). You can constrain the movement of
points by choosing "Snap to Grid" in Settings->Grid Settings. You can
even set the coarseness of the "snap" grid (see Settings->Grid
Settings).

To add a new spline point, simply click on the left mouse button. The
green rubber band indicates which end of the spline will be extended.
To add a new point in the middle of the spline, go over the spline
until that part of the spline turns green, then click on the left
mouse button. The new point can then be moved the usual way.

The spline itself can consist of several curve segments, each of which
can either be a spline or a line. To switch between "spline" and
"line" mode, press "s" or "l" respectively (in Potter, there is also a
line/spline toggle interface). To start a new curve segment, keep the
"Shift" key pressed while clicking on the left mouse button to create
a new point. The new point will now be in a different curve segment.
Notice that the junction spline point is red. You can "split" a curve
segment into two by pressing "Shift" while clicking the left mouse on
the curve. You can use multiple curve segments in a spline either to
create spline/line combinations, or create "cusps" in the spline.

To delete a point, move over it until the green box appears. Then
press "d" or "Backspace" or "Delete" on the keyboard. If you have
"Shift" pressed at the same time, the entire curve segment is deleted.
If you have both "Shift" and "Ctrl" pressed at the same time, the
entire spline (all curve segments) is deleted.

"Undo": This is exactly the same as Edit->Undo in the main title bar
(and the undo icon). It is used to retract the effect of the last
operation performed (and is usually used in conjunction with Potter
spline editing).

"Clear":This clears the currently selected spline (Profile, Section,
Local Section or Axis). This allows you to start over using the spline
editor, or loading a new spline.

"Join Ends": This toggle is used to make the spline "closed".

"Line/Spline": This is used to select the current mode for spline
editing (See "Spline editing" below").

"Primitive": This brings up a menu of spline templates or primitives.
These can be loaded as the currently selected spline. The menu
includes standard spline shapes like Circle.s (the ".s" says that it
is a spline curve), SemiCircle.l (".l" says that it is made up of
lines), Square.l, and so on. By using the right combination of splines
for the section, profile and axis, you can create a number of Potter
shapes.

"Load": This brings up a file selector, and you can load a spline from
file, as the current profile/section/axis.

"Save": This brings up the Sculptor->Save menu, and you can save the
current spline onto a file. This allows you to create your own library
of splines and reuse them.

"New": This is used when you want to work on a new Potter object. If
you select another object and choose "New", that object is now loaded
into Potter. If no object is selected, you are given a new default
Potter object.
