Limelight->Render Options Setup

The Render Options Setup menu is the next selection in the Limelight
menu. When selected, this will bring up the Render Options editor. The
Render Options Editor has the following options and controls:

	Render To Window
	Render To File	(radio button)

	Width (Slider)
	Height (Slider)

	Render Subwindow (Toggle)
	Test Render (Push button)
	Process Sheet... (Push button)
	Select Program... (Push button)

	Render Image Controls

	Image file (Text field)
	Set Image folder (Push button)
	Render Image format selector (List selector)
	
	Render Image File path window

	Render Attributes
	Samples (Slider)
	Jitter (Toggle)
	Render Shadows (Toggle)
	Filter (Box/ Gaussian)
	Maximum Ray depth (Slider)
	Cutoff (Slider)
	
	Contrast Sliders
	Red (Slider)
	Green (Slider)
	Blue (Slider)

	Render	Dismiss

Render To Window: When this option is selected, photo-realistic
rendering will be done to a window. This is typically done for small
scenes that don't take more than half an hour or so to render. For
larger scenes, the "Render to File" option is recommended. Iconifying
a window or a screen saver kicking in can disrupt the rendering
process in this mode.

Render to File: Renders to the specified file. When rendering is
complete, you will see a message box informing you that rendering is
complete and a window with the complete rendered image will appear.
You will also find the final rendered image of the specified name,
format and resolution in the image folder. This option is recommended
scenes that take more than half an hour to render and will not be
disrupted by screen savers or any other process.

Width: This sets the width of the rendering scene.

Height: This sets the height of the rendering scene.

Render Subwindow: When this toggle is selected, you can use a drag box
in the main scene to set the rendering window. Only objects in this
subwindow will be rendered. This feature is not available in this
release.

Test Render: This does a quick preview of the entire rendering to a
much smaller sized window. This is typically done before the actual
rendering to make sure the scene appears the way you want it to. This
is a much more inexpensive operation than the actual rendering
operation and should take no more than 5 minutes for even complicated
scenes.

Process Sheet: When this push button is selected, you will get the
Render Process Sheet editor. This editor contains a list of all
rendering processes that are currently underway. Please see the
section on "Render Process Sheet" for more documentation on the Render
Process Sheet editor.

Select Render Process: This brings up the Render Process editor that
can be used to set the render process of choice in Movieola.

Image file: (Text field) is used to set the name of the rendered
image. Please use a name that has not been used in another rendering
process.

Set Image Folder: This push button brings up a file selector which can
be used to set the folder to which you want the rendered image to be
created. By default, if an image folder is not set, images are created
in the "images" folder in your current project directory.

Render Image format: is used to select the format of the rendered
images. Different formats like bw (black and white), CompuServe GIF,
SGI RGB, pict etc. are supported in Movieola. The default format is
SGI RGB.

Render Image File path window This window records the complete path of
the render image file. When you set the image folder using the Image
Folder file selector, you will notice the text in this window updating
to reflect the new image path.


Anti-aliasing in Ray tracers

Given a screen of a fixed size, creating an image in the rendering
module is accomplished by sampling each pixel one or more times in
order to determine what can be seen "through" that pixel by the
camera. If a pixel is not sampled at the proper rate, aliasing will
result. Aliasing usually appears as "jaggies" or "stair steps" in the
image. In order to reduce these and other artifacts, most raytracers
provide an adaptive jittered antialiasing scheme that attempts to
detect where increased sampling rates are needed. In jittered
sampling, the location at which a sample is taken is perturbed by a
random amount. This perturbation reduces aliasing but may add noise to
the image.

The adaptive sampling scheme begins by sampling each pixel on the
current scanline once. For each pixel on the scanline, the contrast
between it and its four immediate neighbors is computed. If this
contrast is greater than the user-specified maximum in any color
channel, the pixel and its neighbors are all supersampled by firing an
additional (<number of samples> x <number of samples> - 1) rays
through those pixels that have not already been supersampled. This
process is repeated for the current scanline until a pass is made
without any pixel being supersampled.

Samples: This slider sets the number of samples to be used in
rendering. If the sample value is set to n, the photo-realistic
rendering module uses nxn samples while performing jittered sampling.
More the number of samples, the longer will be the rendering time but
better will be the anti-aliasing effects in the ray-traced image. The
default number of samples in Movieola is 3 and the maximum value that
can be set is 5.

Jitter: This turns on/off jittering in rendering. The jitter option on
can produce some good anti-aliasing effects in the ray-traced image.
But it may also add a little bit of noise to the image.

Render Shadows: With this option on, shadows created by light sources
are rendered. When this option is turned off, rendering is faster, but
no shadows are produced.

Filter: This is used to select the render filter type in the rendering
process. Two different filter options -- Box and Gaussian filters are
available.

The Ray tree in a ray tracer

When ray tracing a scene, reflected or transmitted rays may strike
other reflective or transparent objects. Further reflected or
transmitted rays will be spawned, and so on. Taken together, sucha
family of rays us termed the ray tree. Care must be taken to control
the depth of this tree. If it is allowed to grow too deeply, one may
spend a great deal of time computing rays that contribute little to
the final rendered picture; if it is not allowed to grow far enough,
this premature tree pruning may be evident in the final rendered
image.

Maximum Ray depth: This controls the depth of the ray in the ray
tracing operation. This option informs the ray-tracer to not spawn
rays deeper than those at the given level. Larger ray depths produces
more accurate renderings, but can also take up a longer time.

Cutoff: Sets the rendering cutoff (threshold) in the rendering
process. This informs the ray-tracer to not spawn rays whose
contribution to the final color of the eye ray is less than the set
threshold/cutoff value for each color channel.

Color Contrast:

These sliders set the maximum allowed contrast between four color
samples when adaptive supersampling is used. The contrast test is
applied to each color channel separately.

Red: Sets the red contrast on the rendered image.

Green: Sets the green contrast in the rendered image.

Blue: Sets the blue contrast in the rendered image.

Render (Push button): starts the actual rendering process based on the
settings you have chosen. When you click on "Render", you will notice
your cursor change to a "stop watch" cursor and the hand on the stop
watch will start to move to indicate that Movieola is setting up data
for the rendering process. When the hand on the stop watch completes
one full circle, it means that Movieola has finished setting up the
data and rendering is about to start.

Dismiss: This button causes the Render Options editor to be dismissed.

Render Process Sheet

Process Sheet: When this push button is selected, you will get the
"Render Process Sheet" editor. This editor contains a list of all
rendering processes that are currently underway.

Each process in the list is listed by its system process ID (PID),
amount of time it has been running, the name of the user who started
the process and finally the name of the actual rendering process. If
you select a process from the list, you will notice the "Terminate"
button become sensitive. If that particular rendering process is
happenning to a file, you will also notice the "Show Status" button
become sensitive.

"Show Status": This button for a process rendering to a file will
attempt to bring up the image created that far and gives a good
indication of how much of the rendering is complete. You will notice
that raytracers (like Rayshade) take a longer time in areas that have
objects and textures than in areas that have no objects. What this
means is that that the "Show Status" image will not grow in size and
picture linearly. It will grow rapidly in areas that have fewer
objects and slower on areas that have more objects.

"Terminate": This button when selected will terminate the selected
rendering process before it is completed. This option can be useful if
you don't find the image shaping up the way you wanted. You may then
want to terminate the process and go into Movieola and change
parameters of objects and the scene and re-render the scene.

"Update List": This button when selected will update the process list.
You will notice the process time growing as you would expect. Process
that have since completed will no longer be listed in the process
sheet.

"Dismiss": This will dismiss the Render Process Sheet editor.
