Spline Editing:

This is a very powerful 3D curve editor used for creating and
modifying splines. In the "Potter" tool, it is used for editing the
section/profile/axis curves. In the "3D text" tool, it is used to edit
the bevel of the text.

The spline is colored white or red, and the spline control points are
colored blue. The cursor is a red cross-hair. A green rubber-band
extends from the current cursor position to the nearest end of the
spline. If you move the cursor over the spline, that part of the
spline turns green. If you move the cursor over a blue spline point, a
green box appears over it.

To move a blue spline point, move your cursor over it until a green
box appears over it. Press on the left mouse button. The green box
turns yellow . Move the point while keeping the mouse button pressed.
Notice how the spline changes shape! In a 2D viewer (see
Settings->2Dviewer), the object can be moved in the viewing plane. In
the 3D viewer (see Settings->3Dviewer), you can actually move it in
any direction. The manipulator choose which 3D axis direction to move
in, based on your mouse movement. If you keep the "Shift" key pressed,
the movement will be constrained along the nearest axis (which will be
colored a brighter yellow). If you keep the "Alt" key pressed, the
movement will be constrained along the plane indicated by the first
gesture of the mouse.

To move a group of points together, press down the middle mouse button
and drag a rectangular box around the required points. When you let up
on the button, a "box manipulator" shows up around the box. You can
now press down on the left mouse to move the box (and the points
inside it). You can also resize the box by pressing down on the corner
and side "handles". The box turns yellow during movement.

You can make a "closed" spline by pressing "j" (the Potter tool also
has a "Join Ends" toggle interface). You can constrain the movement of
points by choosing "Snap to Grid" in Settings->Grid Settings. You can
even set the coarseness of the "snap" grid (see Settings->Grid
Settings).

To add a new spline point, simply click on the left mouse button. The
green rubber band indicates which end of the spline will be extended.
To add a new point in the middle of the spline, go over the spline
until that part of the spline turns green, then click on the left
mouse button. The new point can then be moved the usual way.

The spline itself can consist of several curve segments, each of which
can either be a spline or a line. To switch between "spline" and
"line" mode, press "s" or "l" respectively (in Potter, there is also a
line/spline toggle interface). To start a new curve segment, keep the
"Shift" key pressed while clicking on the left mouse button to create
a new point. The new point will now be in a different curve segment.
Notice that the junction spline point is red. You can "split" a curve
segment into two by pressing "Shift" while clicking the left mouse on
the curve. You can use multiple curve segments in a spline either to
create spline/line combinations, or create "cusps" in the spline.

To delete a point, move over it until the green box appears. Then
press "d" or "Backspace" or "Delete" on the keyboard. If you have
"Shift" pressed at the same time, the entire curve segment is deleted.
If you have both "Shift" and "Ctrl" pressed at the same time, the
entire spline (all curve segments) is deleted.
