Costume-> Texture

Texture.... is the next selection found in the "Costume" menu.
 
The Texture editor is one of the more dramatic of MOVIEOLA tools. This
is because it can take a simple rectangular block and turn it into a
stone or brick wall with one button click.

The Texture editor like the Color editor should be invoked with an
object selected.

The Texture editor is divided into five basic sections:

In the upper left quarter of the editor is the translation, rotation
and scaling section. In the upper right-hand side is the texture
palette browser. In the bottom left quarter are the mapping controls,
and on the lower right side is the mapping preview window. This window
is used to quickly "preview" the texture mapping of the object before
it gets updated in the main scene. The "Image Information" window is
in the middle of the texture editor.


Texture Editor Menu Options

	Menu:
 		Palette :
			New
			Load
			Remove
		               	[project palette]
			[palette001]
			      ="=
		  Image:
			Transfer->
			Load
			View
			Paint
			Remove		Texture Editor Controls :

	Translate X: (Slider)
	Translate Y: (Slider)	Texture Palette Browser
	     Rotate : (Slider)
	    Scale X : (Slider)
	    Scale Y : (Slider)

                   Image Information Window
		                   	Mapping Preview
			Window
	Automatic : (Toggle)
	Update: : (Push button)
	Component : (Button Selector)
	Model Type : (Button Selector)
	Wrap Type : (Button Selector)
	     Layer : (Slider)

	Show Texture in Main View:	 Push button
	Dismiss : Push button

Palette Menu

The Palette menu provides controls that affect texture palettes in
Movieola. A texture palette is simply a folder or a directory on your
system that holds texture RGB images. They present a nice way of
separating your texture images based on context. For example, if you
have a series of images of Michelangelo's paintings and another series
of images of Picasso's paintings, you may wish to create separate
palettes for each of them called "Michelangelo" and "Picasso". This
will create separate folders of the same name in your texture
directory. The texture directory, by default, points to the directory
shipped with the Movieola_system. You may then use WorkSpace or the
shell to move all Michelangelo images to the Miichelangelo folder. Or
you may use the utilities provided in the "Image" drop down menu
(explained later) to transfer images to the newly created
"Michelangelo" folder.

New will bring up the New Palette Menu and lets you create a new
palette into which texture bitmaps can be loaded and stored. Each
palette may contain up to 41 different bitmaps of any size. You need
to enter a name for the palette (or use the default name provided) nad
press "Ok" in the New Palette Menu. This will cause Movieola to create
an empty palette with that name. You may them move your texture bitmap
images to this palette using the options in the "Image" menu
(explained later).

Load will bring up a file selector that will let you create and load a
remote folder containing texture bitmaps in to a texture palette
folder in your texture directory. The file selector can then be used
to select a folder or directory anywhere on your system and read the
contents of that folder in to a newly created palette. The "Load" menu
provides a text field to set the name of this palette folder.

The Load Palette Menu provides 3 options for loading palettes:

(1) Symbolic link: (default) To avoid duplicating a complete folder
which can take up a lot of disk space, Movieola creates a symbolic
link to that folder. This creates a permanent palette which will show
up in all Movieola sessions thereafter. Since Movieola creates a
symbolic link with this option, deleting files from the original
folder through WorkSpace or from the shell will cause images to be
deleted from this palette folder as well.

(2) Copy entire palette: This option will cause the entire contents of
the folder to be copied to the texture palette area. This way, even if
images from the original folder are deleted, the newly created palette
folder will retain copies of the texture bitmap images. The down side
to this option is the disk space required to make copies of images.

(3) Use for this session only: This option creates a "virtual"
palette. Movieola remembers the names and paths of the images only
during the current session. If you exit and restart Movieola, this
palette information will be lost. This option is useful if you just
want to browse through the contents o a remote folder.

Remove will remove the current palette folder. This will remove the
complete contents of the folder including every single texture bitmap
in that folder.

[project palette] is a folder that is specific to the project you are
working on. It contains all textures that have been mapped to objects
in the current project. As far as possible, textures should never be
removed from this palette. This palette is mainly for viewing and
transferring images to and from this folder is not recommended.

You can go from one palette to another by selecting the palette name
radio button under the palette menu. This will take a few minutes as
Movieola tries to load all texture bitmaps in that palette folder.

Image Menu

The "Load" option in this drop down menu is the only item that can be
selected when no image has been selected from the texture palette
browser. All other menu items only work when you have an image
selected from the texture palette browser.

Transfer: The "Transfer" menu is used to transfer images between
different palettes. When you have an image selected from the texture
palette browser, you can transfer the image using this menu option
onto another palette. This will move the image from the current
palette onto the specified palette.

Load: The "Load" option brings up a file selector that lets you load a
texture bitmap RGB from any location in your system. You can browse
through directories on your system to locate the image file you want
and when you click on "Ok" in the file selector with an image file
selected, Movieola will load the image onto the current palette. You
will notice your texture palette browser redrawing as it tries to add
another image icon to its list.

View: The "View" options lets you view the selected texture bitmap. No
editing of the image can be done while "viewing" the texture bitmap.

Paint: The "Paint" option brings up the currently selected paint
program and lets you paint/edit the texture bitmap selected. Please
see the "Limelight" section for more information on selecting a paint
program of your choice "on the fly". The default paint program in
Movieola is "Creative License" from Time Arts. Any Movieola texture
may be loaded into this paint package and modified to suit the user's
needs. Any saving done in this environment affects the base bitmap and
can be used immediately in Movieola. Entirely new maps or combination
of existing maps may also be created.. This same tool can also be
accessed under the "Limelight" menu. (Please see "Limelight" section).
If you have purchased the Time Arts Creative License 24-bit Paint
program bundle from Radiance Software, please refer to the
accompanying documentation for more information on the paint program.

Remove: The "Remove" option removes the currently selected bitmap
texture from the current palette.

Note: For loading images onto a palette or transferring images to and
from palettes, you need to have file write permission in that project
folder.


Texture Palette Browser

The texture palette browser is the window on the upper right quarter
of your texture editor. The browser contains icons for all the texture
bitmaps in the current palette. An image icon has a shrunk view of the
image itself and if you move your mouse on top of an icon, you will
find information on the image printed in the "Image Information"
window.

Image Information Window:

This window in the center of the texture editor stores the following
information on the currently selected image:
	Image file name
	Size of the image ( x-resolution and y-resolution)
	Number of channels (components) in the image.

Texture Editor Controls

The texture editor was designed to make object texture mapping as
intuitive as possible. When reading this section, bear in mind that it
is intended that the editor give the user immediate feedback to all
control inputs. To do this, two view windows are provided. The top
window (Texture Palette Browser) displays the images contained in the
current texture palette. The second window (Mapping Preview Window)
just below displays the selected object to be mapped.  As tools are
used, the mapping process is displayed in the lower window with the
map shown as it will appear on the actual object in the Movieola
environment.

Translate X: (Slider) is used to move the image in the X axis of the
surface of the object relative to its orientation. In most cases, you
will see right-left movement of the image on the object when the
Translate X control is used.

Translate Y: (Slider) is used to move the image in the Y axis of the
surface of the object relative to its orientation. In most cases, you
will see up-down movement of the image on the object when the
Translate Y control is used.

Rotate : (Slider) is used to rotate the image relative to its original
position and orientation in the original texture.  In most cases, you
will see an angular movement of the image on the object when the
Rotate control is used.

Scale X : (Slider) controls the X scale of the map on the surface of
the object. This tool works in conjuction with the "Wrap Type"
control. The effects of changing the X scale are quite different
depending on the "Wrap " being used. (see Wrap Type below). Generally
you will see the image map get larger or smaller in a horizontal
direction when the Scale X option is used.

 Scale Y : (Slider) controls the Y scale of the map on the surface of
the object. This tool works in conjunction with the "Wrap Type"
control. The effects of changing the Y scale are quite different
depending on the "Wrap " being used. (see Wrap Type below). Generally
you will see the image map get larger or smaller in a vertical
direction when Scale Y option is used.


Update: The texture editor works in one of two ways. In manual mode,
you must left-mouse-click on the "Update" button to see the texture
map selection get updated in the main view.  If you have the
"Automatic" option turned on, you don't need to click on the "Update"
button everytime you want to update the main scene. Every single
texture editor action updates the preview window and the main scene if
the "Automatic" option is on. Having this option on can make things
slow as updating in the main scene can be fairly expensive.

When you update the main view, you will notice that the object in the
main view still does not appear texture mapped. This is because the
"Show Texture in Main View" option is turned off by default. With this
option turned off, texture mapping effects only show in images
produced using Movieola's photo-realistic rendering module. This makes
movement and manipulation of objects inside Movieola much faster and
more interactive. When you turn on the "Show Textire in Main View"
option, you will see texture mapping effects in the main view in
Movieola. This will slow things down on most systems where real-time
texture mapping is not possible. But with this option on, you can move
and rotate textured objects in the main view as fast as the hardware
will allow you.

Component : This control is used to set the component of the texture
map. "Intensity" component when set specifies that after the object is
shaded, the shaded color is combined with the texture color to obtain
the final color for the object. The "Transparency" component when set
specifies that the transparent value of the object be replaced by this
value. You may also set "Both" components. "Bump" mapping affects the
gradient of the object. This option is not available in this release.

Model Type : This control is used to set the texture model to be used.
The "Modulate" option multiplies the shaded color with the texture
color to obtain the final color for the object. The "Decal" option
replaces the shaded color of the object with the texture color.

Wrap Type : This control is used to either "Clamp" the texture or
allow it to "Repeat". In "Clamp" mode, the texture image is only
mapped once to the object no matter what alterations are made using
the editor. In "Repeat" mode, the image is mapped to the object as
many times as it takes to cover the object with an equal number of
duplicate maps. As the scale tools are used, the horizontal and
vertical proportions of the original bitmap will change to fit the
control constraints.

 Layer : This control is used to add one texture on top of another.
This option is not available in this release.


Dismiss : This option dismisses the texture editor.

