Sculptor->Text->3D Text

"3DText" is a tool to create "flying logos" and captions. This tool
will create standard font styles in true 3D objects which may then be
used like any other object. This includes applying material and
textures. In addition, bevelled or embossed 3DText is only a matter of
using a simple spline editor.

Selecting "3DText" will display the 3D Text Editor. This editor
contains several combined options and tools. A default object name (or
name of an existing selected object) is displayed on the top left
corner. This name can be changed.  Below this is Input Text with a
toggle which selects for manual input or Dynamic Update. If you use
the defaults, you will use the keyboard to enter the desired text,
when you have finished with the various settings which effect the 3D
text object you would click on "Accept" at which time the text
appearing in the "Input Text" window will appear in the center of the
main scene. If you click on the Dynamic Update toggle button, then you
will see the 3D Text object appear in the sceneas you enter each text
choice from the Keyboard.

Below the Input Text window you will find the Font selector. This is a
standard list, to use it simply double click on any font displayed and
the text will use that font.

On the right side of the "3D Text Editor" you will find the "Profile
Editor". This tool is used to change the profile contours (bevelling)
of the 3D Text.. To use this tool start by moving the mouse cursor
over the blue point marker at the left side of the profile spline.
When the control point is selected a small green bonding box will
appear around the blue control point. Now press the left mouse button
and hold it, this will change the display to a yellow drag
manipulator. Still holding the left mouse button down, drag the mouse
up or down. You will see the profile of the 3D text object change.
Move the cursor over the line till it turns green, and click the left
mouse button to create a new intermediate point on the profile. Press
"D" or "Backspace" or "Delete" to remove the point.

Below this is the Edit Parts button. This option controls the
attributes of each of the three parts of the 3D text object., ie.
Front, Sides and Back. Selecting this option will display the controls
to turn one or more of these parts on or off, and to edit the
materials. (See Costume->Materials).

