GETTING STARTED


In this Beta version, we give you a very brief overview of Movieola,
to get you started immediately. In the final version, more extensive
tutorials will be given. Being extremely user-friendly, Movieola will
present much less difficulty in learning, than similar packages. Use
the on-line context-sensitive cue cards to get detailed help on the
various tools. You will be surprised by how quickly you will start
doing complex projects.


Running Movieola:

If you registered yourself as a Movieola user during installation (see
Chapter 2), you will have a "Movieola" executable script in your home
directory. Run Movieola by double-clicking on the Workspace icon, or
by typing '/usr/sbin/Movieola' in the Console window.


Starting a new project:

Movieola comes up with the "Open project" interface. Type in a new
name, say, "Tutorial", and choose "Ok". A new project folder called
"Tutorial.mvla" will be created.  The interface in front of you has a
main 3D viewer with a title bar., and an icon menu.

The title bar has several drop-down menus. "File" contains operations
to manage your project. "Edit" contains common editing operations like
"cut" and "undo". "Sculptor" contains all the modeling operations.
"Costume" contains operations to give color,s materials and textures
to objects. "Limelight" contains operations to set lights and
environment, and to render the photorealistic scene. "Settings"
contains interfaces to customize your work settings. "Cue Cards" gives
you help. The icon menu is a shortcut for some of the more important
operations in the title bar menus. To use text labels instead of
icons, choose "View->Labels" in the icon window.


Getting online help:

Choose "Cue Cards->On Context" in the main title bar. This will bring
up the cue card on opening a new project. As you go on to do more
things, the cue card will constantly update to give you help on
whatever you are doing.If you want to just get help on the various
tools without actually doing any action, choose "Cue Cards->Help
Mode". Then if you click on any button, it does not perform the
action, but only gives you help on it. You can also get help on any
tool by choosing "Cue Cards->On Topic". It is recommended that you
contantly refer to the cue cards (either "on Context", or "on Topic")
while you are still learning the product.. Depending on your style,
you may either follow the tutorial as it is, or experiment on your own
as you go along (with the help of cue cards).


Getting Your Feet Wet:

Choose "Sculptor->Primitives" or the Primitives icon (the one with a
cube and sphere on a checkerboard). This brings up a list of common
primitives. Click on "Cylinder" and choose "Accept". A wireframe
cylinder appears in the main viewer window. "Dismiss" the "Primitives"
window. Use the right mouse button in the viewer window to bring up
the popup menu, and choose Draw Style->As Is. While keeping the left
mouse button rpessed, move the cursor around and see how the view
changes. Use the middle mouse button to translate in the viewing
plane. By pressing both the left and middle mouse buttons, you can
zoom in and out. Play around the viewer and the interface items in the
viewer "decoration", and the popup menu, to get comfortable. You can
change the view to one of six plane views (top, front, etc) or the 3D
perspective view. You can bring up any number of additional viewers by
choosing "Settings->3D Viewer", or "Settings ->2D Viewer."

Change from "viewing" mode to "editing mode" by "closing the eye" at
the top right corner of the viewer decoration, or by pressing the
Space bar once. The cursor changes to an arrow. Press the left mouse
button on the cylinder object and move. Notice the yellow "drag
manipulator" that allows you to move the object in 3D space. Click on
the "Undo" icon to restore the original position. Choose
"Sculptor->Direct Manips" to bring up a choice of 3D manipulators.
Read the cue card to understand about the "transform box" manipulator.
Choose "Transform Box" and notice how the manipulator around the
object changes shape. Try resizing the object. Choose "Drag Point" to
use the default manipulator (that allows you to move the object).
"Dismiss" the "Direct Manips" window, or put it aside.

Choose "Edit->Duplicate" or click on the icon. Then use the left mouse
to drag the copy of the cylinder to a new location. Choose
"Sculptor->Object List" or click on its icon. Notice that there are
two ojects listed. Select the second object, and try to "Rename" it.
Then select both objects in the list. Choose "Edit->Group". Notice
that the two objects now move as one group. Choose "Edit->Ungroup" to
ungroup them. Choose one object, and choose "Edit->Hide->Selected".
Notice how the other object disappears. Use this operation to
concentrate on the object tha you are working on currently. Chose
"Edit->Show" to unhide all objects. Click on a region outside all
objects to deselect all selected objects.

(This works only if you already have Display PostScript installed)
Click on the 3D text icon (or choose Sculptor->Text->3D). This brings
up the 3D text interface. Type in some text, choose a font and say
"Accept". Notice the 3D text appear on the viewer window. Change the
view, and use Draw Style->As Is to get a better look at the text .
Click in the middle of the profile line in the 3D text interface. Then
drag that point with your left mouse button. Notice how the bevel of
the 3D text changes in the main window. Use the "Cue Cards" help if
you have trouble with 3D text.


Potter: Let's Start Modeling!

Delete all objects by choosing "Edit->Select All" and "Edit->Cut".
(Alt-A-Alt-X is a keyboard shortcut for this). Then choose
"Scultor->Potter" or click on the icon. This brings up the fancy
"Potter" interface. Bring up the cue card and read the introduction to
Potter. The cylindrical object in the scene is built by using a
straight profile (in the lower Potter window) and a circular section
(in the upper window). You can now change the section and profile by
moving the spline points in the profile window. (Read the Potter cue
card for details on spline editing). Notice how the object changes
shape. You can edit the section by choosing "Section". Move the
"twist" splider and notice the effect on the object. Choose "Axis".
Notice how a red axis spline appears on the viewer window. Choose
"Viewer Type->Front" in the viewer pop up menu. Move your cursor over
the end of the axis spline, and when a green box appears, press down
with the left mouse button and move it vertically. Notice how the
object stretches as you change the axis. Click on the middle of the
axis to create a new spline point. Now move any spline point and see
how the object bends. Try moving the "Spline steps" slider to make the
object less or more dense.

"Potter" is the central modeling tool. As you learn more about it and
become more confortable with it, you will realize that this tool can
be used to make incredibly complicated shapes like machines, snakes
and even dinosaurs.


More Modeling:

Choose an object that you built with "Potter" and choose
"Sculptor->Operations->Mold" or click on its icon. Choose "Tweak
spline points". Little blue spline points appear on the surface of the
object. You can now drag these points any way you want.

Delete all objects. Choose "Sculptor->FaceBuilder" or click on the
icon. Click three points on the viewer dinwo, and it creates a
triangle. Create a bunch of faces, and try moving the points around in
"Edit Old" mode. "Face Builder" is a low-level tool for building
individual polygons.

Delete all objects. Create two objects using "Primitives". Place them
at separate locations on the scene. Choose "Sculptor->Assemble". Click
on a point on one object. Then click on a point on the other object.
Observe how the first object "snaps" into place with respect to the
other object.

There are more modeling tools like "Bend" and "Mirror", that you can
learn as you go.



Costume:

Choose "Draw Style->As Is" in the viewer popup menu. Select an object.
and choose "Costume->Color" or click on the icon. This brings up the
color editor.. Move the little marker on the color wheel, and observe
the color change on the object.  Choose "Sculptor->Material" and bring
up the Material editor. Play around with Transparency and other
values.

Choose "Draw Style->As Is" in the viewer popup menu. Select an object.
and choose "Costume->Texture" or click on the icon. This brings up the
texture editor interface and gives you a default "palette" of
textures. Click on one of the images, and see the object on the test
window texture mapped. Try different textures by clicking on them. If
you want to see the blown up texture image, choose "Image->View". Try
translating, scaling and rotating the texture map using the sliders on
the left. Once you have the texture map set up right, choose "Update
Main window" for the texture map to appear on the main scene.
"Dismiss" the texture interface.


Limelight:

Choose "Limelight->Lights". This brings up the light editor. By
default, you are editing the "headlight" (a light that moves with the
camera and always lights up the scene. Try changing the color of the
headlight. To create a new light, choose "Create New", and choose
"Spotlight". Then choose "Create". Notice the spotlight icon in the
viewer window. Try moving it using the left mouse button, and changing
its color. You can "Remove" the light or turn off "Show icon".
"Dismiss" the interface.

(Does not work for Demo copy) Choose "Limelight->Render Options
Setup". Choose "Render to file". Choose "Test Render" or "Render".
After a little while, a rendering window comes up. Notice how the
scene is ray traced progressively. Depending on your scene, you may
notice shadows and reflections. You can also "Render to file". You may
have noticed that some of the interface items in Movieola, like
"Photoreal Property..." or "Render Options Setup", are colored blue.
This means that you will see the effect of your actions only in the
rendering stage, not in the viewer window.


Wrapping up:

Save your project by choosing "File->Save" or clicking on the "piggy
bank" icon. To exit the program, choose "File->Exit".

Hope you enjoyed getting started with Movieola. The best way to get
the most out of the product is to do a serious project using it.

